Amicia: (panting)
Hugo: Look, Amicia.
Amicia: I...
I'm coming...
Hugo: Wow...
Why are there candles?
Amicia: The candles are... to show that you're thinking of someone.
Hugo: Oh. Can I light one?
Amicia: If you want to. Don't burn yourself.
Hugo: Thank you!
For Mummy and Daddy.
Amicia: Watch over them.
Hugo: It's funny. The sound here...
Amicia: There's an echo.
Hugo: Hello!
Amicia: Hugo, there might be people here.
Hugo: Oh.
Amicia: Forgive me for... the evil I have just committed... I never...
Hugo: Amicia, you're really squeezing me.
Amicia: Sorry.
Hugo: Hey, look!
There's a broken window and a ladder.
Amicia: Could be our way out.
Climb up!
Hugo: I hope it doesn't break like the other one.
Amicia: It won't, Hugo. Trust me.
Hugo: Amicia, there's someone there!
Monk: Children, what are you doing here?
Amicia: Father! We need help!
Monk: Leave! It's dangerous! You have no business being here!
Amicia: Wait! Please! It's important!
We should go and talk to him.
Hugo: Is he the one who knows where Laurentius is?
Amicia: It has to be him... It has to...
Hugo: Oh, they've broken everything.
Amicia: What's going on here?
Hugo: Perhaps they're building bigger beds?
Amicia: I don't think that's it.
Hugo: I know that smell.
Amicia: Medicinal herbs...
The monks must have put them in the water to purify themselves.
Mother used to do the same.
Hugo: Flowers! They're so pretty!
They're carnations. We had some in my herbarium.
But those ones are prettier.
Amicia: Hugo, we have to keep moving.
Hugo: Wait, wait. Come here.
Amicia: What?
Hugo: It will protect you. And it's pretty, too.
Amicia: Oh, alright.
Hugo: Now we can go.
Amicia: Thank you, Hugo.
Hugo: You're welcome.
Amicia: Father?
Monk: You again! I told you to leave!
Amicia: Just a moment! Just a...
Monk: You have no idea!
Leave while you still can!
Amicia: Please! Someone has to help us! Do it for him at least.
Monk: The Robert de Rune coat of arms.
Amicia: We are his children. We are looking for Laurentius...
..., the doctor,...
...Do you know him?
Monk: Yes, yes, I know him.
And I know he used to look after your family.
He spoke of you.
I am Father Thomas.
Your presence here is not a good sign.
Amicia: The Inquisition. They came and they...
Father Thomas: I can imagine. But what is happening here is far worse.
You must leave immediately, or you will die.
Amicia: But Father, the villagers wanted to kill us.
Father Thomas: They're mad, they're mad... I...
Laurentius... Laurentius... No...
I cannot leave the church... But an exit...
...through the Crypt of the Three Saints! It may not be too late.
I shall try and put you on the path to Laurentius' farm.
But after that... may God watch over you.
All seems calme for the moment.
Come!
Above all, be sure to stay in the light.
Amicia: Father, why are there crosses on the village doors?
Is it really the plague?
Father Thomas: It started with bites, during the night.
Then the sickness spread, first in families.
Then to everyone. Fever, boils. People started dying.
And when we finally found out where it came from...
...it was already too late.
Amicia: And... where did it come from?
Father Thomas: We're nearly there.
Brother Morel should be here. We are the last two remaining.
Brother Morel?
Stay here.
Brother!
(high pitch noise)
Amicia: What is the matter?
Father?
(ground shaking)
(wind sound)
Hugo: No no no!
(music intensifies)
Father Thomas: Ah! No!
Quick! The light!
Amicia: Father, NO!
Father Thomas: THE LIGHT!
(flesh eating sound)
Amicia: Oh my God! Hugo, stay close to me!
Hugo: They ate him, Amicia! They ate him!
Amicia: But where did they come from? How can there be so many of them?
Protect us.
Hugo: They're everywhere!
Amicia: The light! They're scared of the light!
It's a nightmare.
Hugo: We have to get back outside, Amicia!
Amicia: I know! Keep moving!
It's... a monk... The other brother...
We going to have to climb up. I'll have to put the torch down.
Hugo: No, please.
Amicia: Calm down. There's a torch holder. We'll still have light.
Hugo: But then what?
Amicia: We'll find something.
I'll give you a hand.
Hugo: Alright.
(ground shaking)
Amicia: I don't understand why there are so many of them.
Fire. We need some fire.
The wood will burn quickly. We have to hurry.
Hugo: Go away! Shoo! GO AWAY!
Amicia: Calm down, Hugo! The light will protect us, alright?
Hugo: Alright.
Amicia: So that's their plague... Rats...
The priest spoke of a way out, through the crypt.
Hugo: Amicia, the three statues.
(ground breaking)
Amicia: The Crypt of the Three Saints!
It's the exit the Father spoke of.
We have to find another way.
Go on. Climb up.
Hugo: Uh huhm.
They've eaten them all.
Amicia: Try not to look. We can't do anything for them now.
Hugo: It's horrible!
Amicia: I know. Come on.
You go first.
Hugo: Yes.
(rats squeaking)
Ah!
Amicia: Right. We'll pass at the same time!
I'll go first.
Hugo: Alright.
They're making too much noise... Too much noise...
Amicia: Hugo, calm down.
No rats.
(rats breaking through)
Oh no... No!
Hugo: The light! Into the light, quick!
Amicia: I don't see any torches. How can we... What are we going to do?
That... That seems to keep them busy.
Hugo: Are you sure?
Amicia: Another ham should be enough.
Come on.
Hugo: Down there! The Three Saints!
Amicia: Alright. Let be careful.
(rats squeaking)
We'll be safer if we go that way.
Hugo: Don't fall. Don't fall.
Amicia: We won't fall. Hold my hand tight.
The torch.
Hugo: There's a hole in the grating.
Amicia: I'll lift this up. Can you get the torch?
Hugo: Yes.
Amicia: It's heavy! Hugo! Hurry up! Come on!
Oh no!
Hugo: Are you alright?
Amicia: Yes. Stay where you are, the ground is rotten.
Hugo: Amicia, How... How am I going to get back?
Amicia: We'll find a way. Don't worry.
As long as you have the torch, you'll be safe.
Hugo: But... What about you?
Amicia: We'll... move together...
That way the light coming through the grating will protect me too.
Ready?
Hugo: Ready.
Amicia: Here we go then. Slowly.
Very good.
Hugo: Look, there's a hole. Do you want the torch?
Amicia: Yes. There are too many rats on my side.
Hugo: But where can I get through?
Amicia: The hole behind you.
That's the only way I can see.
Go through there and I'll meet you on the other side.
Hugo: Are you sure?
Amicia: Just stop if you see rats. I'll be with you very quickly.
Hugo: Alright. But please hurry.
Amicia: Quick now.
(collapsing sound)
Hugo: (screamming) Amicia! Amicia! Come quickly!
Amicia: Hugo! What's going on?
Hugo! Talk to me!
Come on, come on!
Hugo: Amicia, up here!
Amicia: Hugo, are you alright?
Hugo: There were rats. I ran to the light.
Amicia: Did they bite you?
Hugo: No. I found a ladder. But there rats down there.
Amicia: I'll open a way through for you.
We're going to get you down from there.
Calm down, Amicia. He's fine. You're fine. Stay focused.
These twigs burn too quickly.
I won't be able to keep them back long enough.
Hugo: Wait. I have something for you.
Amicia: Perfect! Thank you!
Ready. You can come down now.
Sorry, I shouldn't have left you alone. It's too risky.
Hugo: That's alright.
Amicia: The crypt!
Oh, thank you. We can get out of here now.
Hugo: Yes. Far, far away!
Amicia: Go ahead. I'll be right behind you.
Hugo: Of course.
Amicia: Oh, what's that on the ground?
Hugo: Should we go anyway?
Amicia: Yes. We managed to get this far.
We'll be fine. Just stay close.
Hugo: What's that stuff in the walls?
Amicia: I... I... I don't know.
They did that.
Hugo: You... you think so?
Amicia: Yes. We're... We're in their nest.
Hugo: So... They're going to be... even more angry?
Amicia, we mustn't touch the walls.
Amicia: The air. It's burning my throat.
Over there! Light! We're there! We're there, Hugo!
(ground shaking)
No! Run, Hugo! RUN!
Hugo: Go away! Leave us alone!
Amicia: We did it. We did it. We did it. We...
Hugo: Amicia... I want to see Mummy.
I don't want her to be dead.
Amicia: Hugo.
Hugo: I want her to come back.
(emotional music)